---
layout: post
title: "Sophomore Year Reflection"
author: ryan
image: assets/images/amadorvalley.jpeg
categories: [meta]
hidden: false
---

This is a bit late, I guess. But yeah - sophomore year is over for me, which is pretty crazy. Cliche, but it feels like yesterday that I was doing the school tour with the Link Leader people (this was beginning of freshman year). I guess cliches are cliches for a reason.

## School

I'll cover the most important thing first - grades. Grades first semester were pretty rough - I barely kept above 90 in AP World, AP Bio. It's a bit late to do a complete reflection on this, but I think I was very lucky in both classes to maintain an 90 - AP World I was like 2 MCQ questions off of a B, which is a scary thought, and in AP Bio I would've gotten a B if the final wasn't curved (luckily, everyone failed).

This semester, I mostly changed that, kinda. AP World I ended with good grades - I figured out how to optimize for the college board rubric, and got decent grades on essays and the final. AP Bio I'm pretty salty - ended with an A- again, a 92.9. I thought it was around a 94% going in, but there were quite a few glitches in Synergy, leading to a lot of volatility. Of course, that's not an excuse - I probably could've been more careful on an assignment or a test or something, and gotten an A. Probably a good cautionary tale for the future. I will say though, I did end with the second highest grade in the class for my AP Bio period, which tells you something about the tests/quizzes/grading scale. I'll probably go on a rant about teachers and stuff in a different blog post, although I'm not sure if it'll be appropriate to make public. I'm sounding pretty negative here, but the AP Bio teacher is still a pretty nice person, and AP Bio was probably the class I learned the most from.

Those were the two "main" courses - everything else is supposed to be pretty trivial in theory. Spanish went over pretty well - I got an A, didn't really try too hard in the class, nothing much else to say. English I got slightly worse grades on the essays this semsester (even though I thought I wrote better ones?), but they weren't horrific. I was on track to get an A-, but I clutched up and sweated the final presentation, which ended up being pretty fun (but not worth all the time we put into it). Calc was easy, probably because I was lucky in getting Mr. Snyder, and I ended with like a 105% or something. For CS, I feel like Kiyoi likes me, and I can actually do CS slightly, so I was pretty confident there. The final project I ended up doing was also pretty interesting (Allen had a really good idea). I probably won't expand on it in the future, but it is a cool idea regardless. You can read about it [here](https://github.com/ading2210/reviews-squared).

AP tests also happened. They were a lot more stressful/tiring than I expected, and I was pretty burnt out by the time AP Bio rolled around. I'm not sure how I'll survive next year, but I'm sure I'll find a way. The AP World test was pretty easy, and I'm ~60% sure I aced the MCQ, but that doesn't really matter. APCS was also trivial, but that was expected. I don't think I perfect scored, due to a stupid inheritance thing, but whatever - it's just for ego, anyway, right? AP Calc I was kind've nervous for, and I actually (embarassingly) prepared a decent amount for it the weekend before. It turned out to be worthwhile (hey, I actually understand the Lagrange error bound now), and I was able to answer the questions pretty confidently without having to rederive stuff like I usually do. I know that other people go for perfect score, but I was pretty tired at that point, and more worried about AP Bio. For AP Bio, I think I got ~98% on the MCQ, but by the time the FRQ was around, I was pretty done with AP testing. I definitely did not output optimal performance, but I answered all the questions decently well (I was pretty frustrated that I misgraphed a graphing question, and used pen, so I had to cross it out and do a lot of painful things). I think I'll still get a 5, given that my MC was stellar and the FRQs are not hard.

## Other stuff

Other stuff also exists, I guess. The biggest one was making USACO plat, which was pretty cool. It also keeps dreams of camping alive, which is nice. I'll definitely make another post on USACO later. I also had a decent performance on the US Open, which I was pretty surprised with. For other competitive programming stuff, I did pretty well at team competitions - nothing crazy tho. Farmed a bunch of small things for resume, like HPI, CALICO, ProCo, etc. 

What's pretty sad is that I did not make JMO this year. This is pretty sad, since, well, I've spent like 5 years trying to reach this goal, and it's all been blown away. It feels pretty irksome that my last chance to make it was when all the cheating and stuff happened (XiaoHongShu solutions, anyone?), but whatever, I guess. Ironically, I was farther off than last year, but whatever. Next year, I'll probably still take AIME and stuff to try to get a better score than 7, but the ROI of grinding for USAMO is much less than grinding for Finalist, especially since I feel like I'm more suited to USACO than math. This means I'm pretty retired from math, but I still look forward to taking collegiate competitions such as BMT, SMT, since they are pretty fun. It is kinda funny in a twisted way, but ironically no one in Amador lived up to their math "potential". I got the better end of the deal since I wasn't that good at math anyway, but Rohan didn't make MOP, Kailua didn't make Pink, and Daniel couldn't JMO either (2 points away is pretty painful). I guess I got the better end of the deal?

A lot of the other stuff I do is pretty inconsequential, right now, in that the time investment pales to CP and math. Hopefully this changes - I'm trying to get more into webdev (yet another to-do blog post). This year, I quit saxophone, which was bittersweet in a sense. I think that in the past, band has always been a really fun class for me, and that our school district is priveleged to have a very accomplished program. I've gotten to know a lot of people through band, and experiences such as marching band were constructive in retrospect. However, I don't (and have never) practiced regularly, and a lot of saxophone players at school actually do, so it is difficult to compete with them. Whatever, I guess - while I enjoyed band, I'm not quite a "band kid", and the people that are more suited to that personality will gain much more from band than I ever will.

I also made varsity tennis this year, which was pretty nice. Ok, maybe I am like one of the worst players, but hey, it is still varsity. I mean, my/my parents goal for me playing tennis was getting to varsity, so mission accomplished, I guess. It's not like I can get captain, so this is pretty much as good as I can make it. I think the guys on the tennis team are pretty nice, and have made tennis into something that I actually enjoy. Besides, it is free pizza every day (i'm getting sick of pizza but hopefully by the start of next season i won't be) and I can skip a lot of 6th period (this year was CS, so pretty boring). Apart from all this, the main upside for being on varsity tennis is being able to argue that I'm not a "nerd" to people at school. They still don't buy it, though, but it is better than nothing. At least Asher and I can make fun of Daniel, while he tries to say "marching band is a sport".

This post took longer than I anticipated to write, so I'll probably stop for now. I'll probably add more stuff later - probably some future reflecting and panicking about junior year. Cool, I guess. This blog is becoming a thing.